# Automatic-License-Plate-Recognition
The importance of Automatic License Plate Recognition (ALPR) systems has increased along with the number of vehicles and traffic infractions. ALPR, a computer vision tool, is employed to find and identify licence plates in pictures and video feeds. The system operates by taking a picture of a vehicle's licence plate, analysing the picture, and then extracting the licence plate number using computer algorithms.

The proposed method for automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) comprises three main steps: image pre- processing, Number Plate Detection, and character recognition. Transfer Learning is used which is implemented using TensorFlow, which allows for efficient training of deep neural networks on small datasets. The specific model used in this study is SSD MobileNet V2 FPNLite 320x320, which is a state-of-the-art object detection model in computer vision which has a speed of 22ms and Map of 22.2.
Number Plate Detection: In this step, Transfer Learning is used for Object Detection. SSD MobileNet V2 FPNLite 320x320, is the pre-trained model which is used for detecting a wide variety of objects. Transfer Learning is used to train this model on a dataset of license plates. The model was then fine-tuned on a training set of license plate images to improve its accuracy in detecting license plates. The process of fine- tuning involved training the pre-trained model on the license plate images while keeping the majority of the pre-trained weights fixed. Only the last few layers of the pre-trained model were trained on the license plate images to adapt the model to the new dataset. Once the fine-tuning process was complete, the model was able to accurately detect license plates in test images.
OCR Filtering After the license plate region is extracted from the input image, the text recognition step is performed using the EasyOCR library. But before that a bit of filtering is done.
The first filter applied is a confidence score filter. This filter removes any text predictions with a confidence score below a certain threshold. This helps eliminate false positives and incorrect text predictions. This is applied to remove extra text that sometimes comes with the license plate.
